Once we were paid, it's working at the mess hall,
but we got our food.
You didn't get all your food, though. You got thank
yous. That's where I remember we got our food. And
that was a big item. Oh, sure. That was a big item.
And the sacrifice that my family could make and did
make, why? Did they help out? Oh, yes, they helped
out. Did your father help out? helped out and was a
great inspiration to me, because I knew they were
sacrificing to keep my brother in the law school.
And I was able to find work, and he wasn't. So it
didn't bother me a bit in the world. I wanted to do
it. And as I remember, I kept books on it. It cost me
about $1,600 to go through A&M for four years. And
I'm sure they contributed. half a little more of
it, and I made the rest. What
did you think of the living conditions then? Of
living conditions?
Well, of course, I
ate it up. I liked it. I could see where I was going. I
thought I could see where I was going. And I kept
busy. I
went out to play basketball and my size and all I
thought would be a help, but it conflicted with my
work, studies, no question about it. I let it
conflict with my work, let's say it that way.
Whether it necessarily would or should or not,
then I was taking a full course It conflicted with
my work,
and
I was getting along in basketball, let's just say
it that way. And one time we got our grades and I
wasn't doing so well, and I got a letter, a note from
Dean Bolton. He wanted to talk to me. So I went over
and talked to Dean Baldwin. He was head of the
engineering department at that time. Great old
gentleman, great teacher, and a great
philosopher, in my opinion. He knew how to handle
kids, boys. He sat me down. He talked to me for a long
time about, asked me the same kind of questions,
why I came to A&M and what I wanted out of A&M, this
kind of thing. And I told him. And he said, well,
now, did you finally ask me the question, did you
come down here to play basketball or did you come
down here to get an education? Now, Kibble, I don't
want you to make up your mind right now. I want you to
go think about this and come back and tell me in two
or three days. And so I did. And I went back and told
him that I came down And he said, well, I'm so glad
you made up your mind. Now get about it. Anyway, I
can help you a while. Let me know. Otherwise, get
about it. Just start studying. So I started
studying. And my junior year, I liked one great
point of being qualified, you know, as
outstanding student. They called it
qualification those days. And my senior year, I
mean, they called it distinction, distinguished
student. And my senior year I had, as I remember, 17
grade points more than necessary to be a
distinguished student. My senior year I got all
As. That's fantastic. Fantastic. My junior year I
got all As but one or two. After the good dean
convinced me that that the education was there,
and if you came down to get it, get after your boy.
And if you didn't, why? I don't know what he had done
if I had gone back and told him I wanted to play
basketball. He probably told me that the train
leaves at 4.30 next afternoon and be on it. But that
didn't happen, and so I went ahead and graduated as
a distinguished student in 1932.
I just took- Must have been awfully hard to get a
job. It was extremely hard to get a job. And I was the
first one in our class of structural engineers,
what I took.
I'm a registered civil engineer, but I took
structural engineering then and then. Because I
wanted to get into construction. I didn't want to
be a consultant engineer. As such, I wanted to be
out here under the building. And being a builder,
and so I took structural engineering. thinking
that that would better qualify me for the big
picture of what I was trying to do.
And I believe there were eight or nine, eight of us
in that class, in that group.
And I was the first one who got a job for seven
months.
I got a job working for Mr. P.O.B. Montgomery, who
was a Dallas building contractor
who built the University of Texas. I mean, that's
where I went to work for him, down at the University
of Texas building, the library, the present
library, the present physics, and the present
union building down there. Those three buildings
were in one contract, $1,750,000. Were they
federal funds? I have no idea. University of Texas
funds, I presume. Because they didn't have all
that federal business then. Oh, in 1932 they, oh,
well in 1933 they did. They started in 33 and 34, but
true. I don't know. I wasn't interested in where
the money's come from. I was interested in the job,
and I got a job down there as a laborer for 25 cents an
hour. I was a beautiful draftsman in those days,
and I kind of worked as a
apprentice engineer in the office, the
superintendent's office. Those buildings were
structural steel jobs. And the structural steel
would come out not fabricated exactly like the
plans showed. In other words, the rivet holes
wouldn't line up. and we might have to send a piece
back to be either rebuilt or re-bored or
something. And I would do that job detailing on the
job and send it back steel fabricated.
This was a kind of roustabout crew that I was in.
There were 10 of us, all civil engineers. Now that I
was making $0.25 an hour. And Tethland had a
master's of civil engineering. He made $0.30 an
hour. So he was a crew chief.
And he was in the contracting business here for a
long time, building contracting business here
for a long time in Dallas.
We did roustabout work around the jobs.
measuring dirt, setting grades, checking
material coming in,
running errands for the superintendent, this
kind of thing. I used to go with him and watch him
check the rivets to be sure they were tight rivets.
That's where I learned to know whether a rivet's
tight or not and whether it's got to come out or not.
That's when I
learned it in sophomore CE summer training where
they have that field course on measuring dirt and
running lines and grades and all. But that's the
first time I ever applied it was down there
measuring dirt in excavations.
measuring field dirt and measuring
crushed rock and this kind of thing. We mixed all
our own concrete on that job and we unloaded rock
out of a gondola car with a number 10 scoop. When we
weren't doing some of this engineering, I was out
there in a gondola car unloading crushed rock for
two bits an hour.
But it's all relative. It's a good job. Like I say, I
was the first one out of our group of eight
structural engineers that got a job. And I was
thankful for it. Every day I went through four,
five, 600 people, men wanting jobs. And believe
you me, if you got a job, you go through that kind of a
environment getting to your job, it'll make you
dig a better ditch faster and cleaner. And it did me
that. Now let's go back for a minute here at the
Corps. Did you have a position of leadership in the
Corps? At A&M? No. No. I was qualified, but I did not
have a position of leadership in the A&M Corps.
What were some of the things that you liked and what
were some of the things that you disliked about
being in the Corps? I liked every moment of it, and I
didn't dislike one moment of it. There wasn't
anything at all? I'm convinced that it made a man
out of me. Oh, fine. OK. So let's talk about in what
ways then the Corps helped you. What do you mean it
made a man out of you? It made a man out of me in that I
learned
to take discipline. After my early training, I
learned, I mean my parental training, I learned to
take discipline from strangers.
And I learned to respect authority,
meaning a corporal tell me something to do, and I'd
do it. A lieutenant tell me something to do, I'd do
it.
And I liked the routine. the demanding routine,
and it was a demand of getting up and making your bed
up, cleaning it up, cleaning yourself up, going
down and answering a revelry call, and cleaning up
your sophomore, your junior, your senior's
rooms, and marching to breakfast, going to the
classroom, marching to lunch, going to the
classroom, marching, going to information for a
retreat every night. So you like the
regimentation? Well,
I guess that's the way to put it. I like the routine.
Yeah, the routine, okay. If that's
regimentation, well I like regimentation.
I enjoyed the fellowships.
Yeah, I would think so. Of your colleagues? The
greatest friends I have were made at A&M. And we'd
be lifelong friends. Why do you think that is? Why
do you think? I've talked to many generals, and
they said the same thing. The greatest friends I
met, I started our friendship at A&M. Why do you
think that is? Going through the core from the time
I got off of that train early at 4 o'clock, 4.30 the
first morning I was there and going up there and
associating myself with two or three friends and
then some strangers and becoming part of the group
and going through the fellowship of the hazing and
that was real fellowship in the final analysis. It
was me qualifying to participate in being one of
the fellows, being
a good fish, if that's a good way to put it. And by
being a good fish, I established myself as being a
good friend. And
all the way up the line, the core, I like to drill. I
like to work with the horses. And I liked the
competition that we got, and the horsemanship,
and then the qualifications in the military sense
of meaning, the gunner's qualification, and the
number one qualification, and all those jobs.
I accomplished all of them, and to me it was very
basic training. The friendships that I made with
A&M are indelibly imprinted in my mind and I could,
I dare say I could go to any one of them today and ask
them for the shirt off the back and they'd give it to
me and vice versa.
The esprit de corps idea. Esprit de corps was the
outstanding thing that you leave A&M with.
Equally so with a good education. This is the thing
that distinguishes A&M against University of
Texas engineering students, for instance. Okay,
let's talk about that now. This is the thing. I was
convinced if I wanted to be an engineer, I should go
to A&M to be an engineer because I wanted to stay in
Texas. If you want to be a lawyer, you ought to go to
University of Texas because University of Texas
lawyers run our law business in this state. If you
want to be a doctor, you ought to go to Baylor or the
University of Texas Medical School. If you want to
be an engineer, you ought to go to A&M. And their
ex-students
or their
status, if that's the way to put it, has been long
since established
as a potential leader in the engineering world.
There are more engineers and leaders jobs today,
A&M engineers, than any other school in this part
of the country. And my cousin convinced me of that
back in those days when I was formulating and
convincing myself, confirming my convictions,
that that's where I wanted to go to school. And I
don't regret one moment of it.
I think the
basic understanding and fellowship of any A&M
graduate is well worth all the trials and
tribulations of going down there in those days in
the Corps and coming out of it. Now, you became a
general, which is a leader. How did A&M or the Corps
affect that? Did it help you in some way become a
leader? Well, I'm sure it helped me in my
analytical mind. It helped me in the discipline of
myself. It helped me to be able to lead men.
As a general officer, you have to be two things. You
have to be a leader and you have to be a capable
administrator.
And A&M taught me both.
I
can't get away from the indelible lessons that
that I got at A&M that I've used all the rest of my
adult life.
Those things stay with you, become a part of you.
And to me, that's what A&M's all about. Now, let's
for a second here compare, for a minute, compare
the officers of A&M with officers of our other
so-called ROTC schools. Would you compare those?
Well, yes, I certainly compared them with West
Point. And I've compared them with Oklahoma
University, who had an artillery unit up there,
OTC. I've compared them with Purdue. They had an
ROTC unit, artillery unit there. I've compared
with Alabama. They had an artillery unit there. I
think those were the three. artillery units, and
because I was so closely associated with the
artillery, I couldn't help but be associated with
those schools. Sure.
Invariably, we tried to, I as an officer, and I'm
sure all A&M officers tried to excel West Poners,
because I
think if we could do it, we did do it, in that that was
their job, and to me, my Army career was an
extracurriculum activity.
When the Gauntlets were down, and the
very,
life as I know it in our country was at stakes,
meaning the safety of our country or the defense of
our country was at stakes. I was a true
dyed-in-the-wool army officer and every every
every day was a challenge to me to excel and I did. I
excelled in
showing up many West Pointers that they would have
corresponding commands of mine and it was it was a
real really it was a sometimes a detriment because
a senior What was the detriment? My desire to be, to
excel. Oh, okay. Because some very senior
officers, meaning two and three and four-star
generals, would hold me up as an example to West
Pointers. And that didn't help our relations at
all. No, I wouldn't think so. I mean our admiration
for one another at all. I did it because I was going
to excel irrespective of where I'd gone to
college, and they were out there doing their daily
work. It was all a chore to them, and to me it was a
challenge. And so I saw it every day. Nothing in the
world gave me more pleasure than winning a
competition over one of them. and my artillery
units did. We won lots of competitions over them,
and consistently got better ratings, and then one
or two out of the four that we were associated with,
you know, just free decor of the artillery.
Well, could you compare the officers of those
institutions you talked about with the A&M
officers? The best way to compare them is to tell
you the admiration that the very senior
regular army officers held for the A&M Cardiff
Blind, an A&M ROTC officer. Invariably, they were
given the responsibility above any other school,
because the senior officers knew that the A&M
officers were Carry the ball, get the job done,
period. No question about it. As versus some of the
others. A&M had a better basic training, I think.
They came out of A&M better equipped to do a better
job. And this is not the fault of Oklahoma
University or Purdue or Alabama or any of the rest
of them. It's the excellence of Texas A&M.
Well, what about West Point? Well, I
don't know. They don't teach the
same thing as A&M teaches. They don't
indoctrinate their people at A&M, taught in those
days. That's what I'm talking about. And I'm sure
it's just, it's much better today. Because A&M,
you know, in those days was the outstanding
college in our world. And I'm sure they had
problems that we got reflections of, but didn't
know the the details or weren't concerned with,
let's say it that way. But in later life, I got into a
lot of those problems. John Rutter was a very close
friend of mine. We were classmates. And he and I
were very close friends, as close as I guess he was
to anybody. And he would discuss his problems
there with me. Maybe as a trial balloon, I finally
got convinced that that's what he was doing, is
getting my opinion. I'm sure he talked to a lot of
people that same way. But I can see that a lot of my
recommendations were adopted that way, too. And
so I know he had problems just like everybody else
does.
I credit the A&M Corps training to have qualified
me and given me the desire and equipped me to do
things I did in the Army, which were
excelled. OK, what about, let's move away from the
Corps and the military aspect of A&M. and move on to
the academic. You gave a little example of how you
were prompted, we might say, to do better. What did
you think of the professors, the quality of the
professors, back in the early 1930s at A&M? Well,
I would never criticize any of them, although I had
some very definite thoughts about them. For
instance, perhaps some of them were too old or too,
I remember a very kind gentleman named, we
nicknamed him, his name was Robert something
Smith, and we called him Bobby Smith, taught
calculus. And I busted calculus. Busted it the
first time I took it because I didn't apply myself.
Nothing to worry about. But anyway, I took it under
him a second time and passed it. But he didn't teach
me the calculus that I think some of the others
could have taught me, purely and simply because he
was too old to teach. I don't know his status. I
don't know his rank or anything about that. But he
would come in. It was so methodical with him. He'd
come in and, gentlemen, the lesson today was on
page 22, 23, and down to paragraph 2 on 24. He would
start out with a problem and go right on across the
board, never talk, never get out of a monotone,
explaining the problems. If there were three,
he'd go around the board three times, and that's
the end of the class.
That wasn't the kind of teaching that probably
would have gotten the points over to me. versus a
teacher that would have been asking Kidwell and
Jones and Smith and Babcock questions and kept us
on our toes.
Some of the other instructors were outstanding,
and I still remember their instruction over in the
CE department. Doc Grinter taught me structures,
and he was outstanding. Grinter? Grinter. How do
you spell that? I believe it's
G-R-U-E-N-T-H-E-R, Grinter. I'll look him up.
And another one, Sleepy Joe Stansted, Dr.
Stansted. I think he later headed the CE
department. I'll look him up, too. He would come
in, and he would give us a test every week.
And if you passed all those tests, or you passed his
required number of those tests, you didn't have to
take final exams. And so you cram by the week,
instead of cramming by the end of three and a half
months, or four months, whenever it was. I liked
that method of teaching. It got
my lessons over to me better, let's say it that way,
and that's what I have to judge it by. I wouldn't
criticize any of the instructors because
I got an education. Maybe I could have gotten a
finer one by more sleepy Joe Sandstead than more
Dr. Grenners than I could fewer Dr. Bobby Smiths.
What about your colleagues as far as students,
other corpsmen as far as students? Were they good,
bad, indifferent? Did they help you or didn't that
have much of an impact? Did you think it was more
individual? It was more individual help.
The juniors in B Battery rode hard over you being at
your desk from call to quarters, which I think was
7.30 to 9.45. And you had a book in your hand, and
you'd be looking at that book. They came around and
checked, theoretically, making sure that you
were studying.
We couldn't be in our room playing dominoes or
cards or watching, listening to radio. They
didn't have TV in those days, but listening to
radio. Or having a bull session. You had to be
studying. The juniors ran. That was their
delegated responsibility as far as the company
commander was concerned. Because the company
commander was judged based, among other things,
on the academic standing of all of his company.
Sure. Absolutely. That was his method or their
methods of making you study doing what was called a
call to quarters, which was a study period from
7.30 or 7.15, something like that, till 9.45.
If I wanted to go to another hall, say I wanted to go
over to Bazell and study with one of the men in my
class on a problem that we had were having, I had to
go get permission to be out of my room. From Mr.
Junior, it was checking that night. Go to the first
sergeant, he'd tell you, well, Sergeant Smith's
checking tonight, or Sergeant Jones, or Sergeant
somebody, and you'll tell him, if they thought you
were sloughing off on them, they'd check up. And if
you didn't go to, Jones' room over in Bazell Hall,
and they caught you at it, you got ten licks with the
board. That's all it was to it. And, you know, that
took incentive out of goofing off real quick.
Taught honesty. Taught honesty, that's right.
Now, I've heard in a number of interviews that A&M
is more than just a college or a university or just
an institution, but it's something special or
unique. What are your thoughts on that?
Certainly, it's unique in its own right. But it's a
spirit of the Corps that is indelibly impressed on
your very life, or your philosophy of life, your
attitude on life, your approach on people. Today,
you go in and introduce yourself. You grab him with
a hand, and you shake him with the same grasp that
you don't get from ex-students in SMU or Texas
University or anywhere else.
You have the... I
don't want to say forwardness, but you have the
self-satisfaction and self... confidence
of going on and saying, my name's Kidwell, and this
is what I want to talk to you about. Or how's the
weather, and how are you getting along on this job,
and you got a problem, I got a problem, how will you
solve it? With a full confidence of knowing that
I'll be listened to and can work it out. Sure.
Getting the job done. Getting the job done. I think
that that self-confidence is as much a part of the
things that taught me at A&M as anything.
The good dean did that and taught me that I could
excel academically. I'm sure that old Bull Nelson
taught me that in our ROTC work. He was an old time
infantry colonel and he was bull of the woods. When
we were down there, I'll never forget the funniest
thing, if you could ask me this I'll tell it now and I
can repeat it, was the funniest thing that
happened at A&M. Of course lots of funny things
happen. But we were living in Milner Hall at that
time and
Some of the Hellraisers, if that's a good word,
call it a good name for them, would get these
railroad torpedoes, steal them from the SP when
they go, when someone's on a train, and either put
them between two bricks or put them on a piece of
reinforced steel and drop them, point down or
something, and they hit the concrete paving in
the, I call it the wells, you know, the ventilation
wells in Milner Hall. It's on a figure eight
design, and these interior wells have got
concrete in them, and they drop them off second,
third, fourth floor, and she'd blow off like a
shotgun. And they'd been dropping them for a month
or something, like once a week or something, just
to break monotony of so much studying. And they're
getting ready to have a board of directors meeting
down there. And the night before the board's meet
the next day,
Colonel Nelson came over, got a B battery out on the
steps of Milner Hall, and he gave us a lecture on
conduct while the board of directors was on the
campus. And he came out with a statement any more of
those goddamn torpedoes going off, I'll walk
every one of you to Brazos. And he hadn't dismissed
us two minutes before, whoom, whoom, whoom.
And he came right back and he got our tactical
officer, Captain Richards and Captain
Richards, and Lieutenant
Paul, I believe was his name, Lieutenant Paul, and
Captain Harry, Tom Harry. And of course he said,
now I told you, you're going to the Bradditch, so
follow the battery out and walk to the Bradditch.
And so they fell the B battery out, called a roll.
The old Colonel Nelson was down there at the Brazos
in his car when we got there, and he called a watch,
called a roll. And believe you me, when he spoke
from in on out, we reacted. But that was the first
walk to the Brazos. But he hadn't got any more. No
more of those. Colt got the words out of his mouth,
the whoom, whoom.
I mean, been in the Corps, you know. Sure,
absolutely. Let's shift now, oh wait, before we
shift to your military career, I should ask you if
there's anything else about being at A&M or the
Corps or academics or anything that you think we
should discuss before we move on? Was there any
really, real important or very significant?
episode that happened that you'd like to discuss?
No. That had an impact? No. I think the, of course,
like I said, there's lots of funny things that
happened, and you're not interested in funny
things. I think that the thing that got out of the
core more than anything else was the discipline,
the training to discipline, and the
self-confidence that I carried and the
friendships that I made.
How about preparation for your military and
civilian career? Well, that's the discipline and
all that you got. Basically, I realized that the
Army wanted, when I got in December of 48, they
wanted people that they could give a job and depend
on to get the job done. They wanted somebody to
carry the ball. And I had certainly learned that.
I learned when very early, and I don't remember
what it is, I'm sure it was at A&M, somebody tell me
to do something. If I couldn't do it, I learned to go
tell them I couldn't do it and why, and they said, on
doing some other way. And maybe that's a good trait
too, in that
you recognize impossibilities. Of
course, like somebody said one time, Harder
things take a little while to do. And impossible,
well, that takes a little longer. And sometimes
you learn that and have to work at it harder. But
that's what the Army looked for. And anybody that
can give them that response can't help but go up in
it. They give you the responsibility, they give
you the tools to do your job, and if you do the job,
you're recognized for it. And that was my whole
experience in the Army. A&M gave me the basic
foundation, and I stayed active in the Army, I mean
in the Reserves,
meaning going to two weeks summer active duty and
going to, we called it troop schools in those days,
going to once a night training during the week and
doing correspondence work to keep up with Army
changing
tactical training and
Here in Dallas, we had the 407th Field Artillery
Group, a reserve group. And we went down every
Thursday night. And that became just a part of my
life of going to troop school on Thursday night, as
Sunday morning Sunday school and church is. It's
just something that I started doing when I was a
bachelor and carried right into my married life.
My wife knew that on Thursday night they have early
dinner, so I'll go to troop school at 7 o'clock. And
I got promoted to first lieutenant and then to
captain. I was a captain when I was called in the
Army in 1940. Yeah, well let's talk about your
military career now. Let's talk about the early
reserves. How did you become involved with the
reserves? Of course, the United States Army
wasn't too interested in active duty personnel
during the Depression. How did you become
involved with the reserves?
I became involved with them in that they had these
reserve units in the major cities. They had one in
Dallas. And
Dallas is where I started to work. And then I
went to Austin, they had one there.
I was interested in equipping myself with current
Army training purely and simply to prepare myself
in the eventuality of the
defense of our country. They taught me that down at
A&M. And certainly, when you got down in the
reserves, that's what they preached to you. about
patriotic preparedness promotes peace. And the
best defense is preparedness. They taught that
then and they haven't changed the philosophy one
older today. I'm convinced that that's correct
and I've proved it out
Army career.
So you want to stay up, the reason why you became
involved with the reserves is that you wanted to
stay up on new artillery methods. On new artillery
methods and in doctrine so that if there was ever an
occasion I would be qualified. Okay. When did you
join your first reserve unit?
In May or June of 1932 when I got my commission.
Okay. When I graduated day and in. Okay, okay. And
can you tell us about the conditions? And let me
flip back through here and I'll give you the exact
date. These are chronologically in order now. And
I should have the appointing
authority.
You were commissioned the 28th of May, 1932.
Here's my commission right here. Yeah, that's
correct. As 2nd Lieutenant Field Artillery.
Yeah. In May 28, 1932.
And the way that thing worked... I went to these
training schools, and when I finished my
correspondence courses, they gave you a
certificate of capacity as having qualified
yourself for the promotion of the next grade.
And here's coming out of where they give you that
certificate and tell you that you're qualified
for the next promotion.